  
 
Abstract — For the last 40 years high – capacity Unmanned 
Air Vehicles have been use mostly for military services such as 
tracking, surveillance, engagement with active weapon or in the 
simplest term for data acquisition purpose. Unmanned Air 
Vehicles are also demanded commercially because of their 
advantages in comparison to manned vehicles such as their low 
manufacturing and operating cost, configuration flexibility 
depending on customer request, not risking pilot in the difficult 
missions. Nevertheless, they have stil l open issues such as 
integration to the manned flight air space, reliability and 
airworthiness. Although Civil Unmanned Air Vehicles 
comprise 3% of the UAV market, it is estimated that they will 
reach 10% level within the next 5 years. UAV systems with 
their useful equipment (camera, hyper spectral imager, air data 
sensors and with similar equipment) have been in use more and 
more for civil applications:  
 Tracking and monitoring in the event of agriculture / 
forest / marine pollution  / waste / emergency an d 
disaster situations  
 Mapping for land registry and cadastre  
 Wildlife and ecologic monitoring,  
 Traffic Monitoring and  
 Geology and mine researches  
They can bring minimal risk and cost advantage to many 
civil applications, in which it was risky and costly to use 
manned air vehicles before.  When the cost of Unmanned Air 
Vehicles designed and produced for military service is taken 
into account, civil market demands lower cost and original 
products which are suitable for civil applications. Most of civil 
appli cations which are mentioned above require UAVs that are 
able to take off and land on limited runway, and moreover 
move quickly in the operation region for mobile applications 
but hover for immobile measurement and tracking when 
necessary. This points to a hybrid unmanned vehicle concept 
 
*Res earch  supported by the Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Science, 
Industry and Technology  
U. O., Author  is a PhD Candidate at the Istanbul Technical University , 
Faculty of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 34469, Istanbul, Turkey 
(corresponding author to provide e -mail: ugur.ozdemir@itu.edu.tr ).  
O. A., Author  is a MSc Student , at the Istanbul Technical University, 
Faculty of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 34469, Istanbul, Turkey (e-mail: 
orktaktas@gmail.com ). 
K.D, A.E.  and G.D.K are with the HAVELSAN A.S., M. Kemal Mah. 
2120. Cat. No:39, 06510, Cankaya, Ankara  
I.O., Author is a Prof. at the Istanbul Technical University, Faculty of 
Aeronautics and Astronautics, 34469, Istanbul, Turkey (e -mail: 
ozkol@itu.edu.tr).  
G. İ.  is a Assoc. Prof. at the Istanbul Technical University, Faculty of 
Aeronautics and Astronautics, 344 69, Istanbul, Turkey (e -mail: 
inalhan@itu.edu.tr).  optimally, namely the Vertical Take Off and Landing (VTOL) 
UAVs. At the same time, this system requires an efficient cost 
solution for applicability / convertibility for different civil 
applications. It means an Air Vehicle having easily portability 
of payload depending on application concept and 
programmability of operation (hover and cruise flight time) 
specific to the application.  
The main topic of this project is designing, producing and 
testing the TURAC  VTOL UAV that ha ve the following 
features:  
 Vertical takeoff and landing, and hovering like 
helicopter  
 High cruise speed and fixed -wing  
 Multi -functional and designed for civil purpose  
 The project involves two different variants:  
 The TURAC  A variant is a fully electrical platform 
which includes 2 tilt electric motors in the front, and a 
fixed electric motor and ducted fan in the rear.  
 The TURAC B  variant  uses fuel cells.  
 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Unmanned air vehicles have been mostly used for military  
services such as tracking, surveillance, engagement with 
active weapons or in the simplest term for data acquisition 
purposes. Although u nmanned air vehicles are also 
demanded  commercially because of their low manufacturing 
and operating costs, configuration flexibility depending on 
customer request, not risking pilot in the difficult missions 
[1], nevertheless they have still open issues such as 
integration to the manned fligh t air space, reliability and 
flight safety.  
Although civil purpose unmanned air vehicles make up 3 
percent of total UAV market, it is estimated that within the 
next 5 years they will constitute 10 percent of the UAV 
market [6].  UAV systems with attached pa yloads (camera 
hyper spectral imager, air data sensors and similar apparatus) 
find new areas of utilization  at numerous civilian processes  
such as:  
 Tracking and monitoring in the event of 
agriculture / forest / marine pollution waste / 
emergency and disast er situations  [3] 
 Mapping for land registry and cadastre [2]  
 Wildlife and ecologic monitoring [4]  
 Traffic Monitoring [7]  Design  of a Commercial H ybrid VTOL UA V System  
Ugur Ozdemir , Yucel Orkut Aktas , Karaca Demirbag , Ahmet Erdem  
Ganime Duygu Kalaycıog lu, Ibrahim Ozko l, Gokhan Inalhan  2013 International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS)
May 28-31, 2013, Grand Hyatt Atlanta, Atlanta, GA
978-1-4799-0817-2/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE 214  
 Geology and mine researches  
 Gas leakage [16]  
 Vegetation monitoring [17,18,19]  
 Plant and forest species identification [20,22]  
 Climate c hange studies [23]  
 Environmental Damage [21]  
Rugged hyperspectral  imagers [15] with small payloads 
(2.7kg) are planned to be used with TURAC . The payload s 
are assumed to  consume  power  from their own power 
supply.  
They can bring minimal risk and cost advantage to a lot of 
civil applications, in which it was risky and costly to use 
manned air vehicles previously . Subject to area o f usage and 
body type, they may come with various form factors as 
follows:  
 Fixed Wing UA V [3]  
 Lighter -than-air UAV [3]  
 Unusual Design UAV ( Quad rotor , etc.) [3]  
 Vertical Take -off and Landing UAV [3,5]  
 Rotating Wing UAV [3,5]  
 Tilt-rotor / Tilt -wing [5]  
 Tail-sitter [5]  
 Thrust -Reserving [5]  
When cost s of  unmanned air vehicles designed and 
produced for military purposes are taken into account, civil 
aviation market requires products oriented at its own type of 
processes with lower cost and original design. Most of the 
civil applications mentioned above req uire UAVs that are 
able to take off and land on limited runways, and move 
quickly in the operation region for mobile applications, but 
hover for static  measurement and tracking when necessary. 
This properties depicts a hybrid unmanned air vehicle 
concept, in other words VTOL UAV . At the same time, this 
kind of system requires an efficient cost solution for 
applicability / convertibility for different kinds of civil 
applications. This, in turn, means an air vehicle having a 
seamless portability of payload de pending on application 
concept and programmability of operation (hover and cruise 
flight time) specific to the application.  
The main topic of this project is designing, 
manufacturing, and testing the TURAC  VTOL UAV that 
have the following features.  
 Vertica l take -off and landing, and hovering like a 
helicopter  
 Fixed -wing with high cruise speed capability  and 
long range  
 Multi -functional and specifically designed for 
civil purpose  TURAC  Concept is given at Fig. 1. 
 
 
Fig. 1: TURAC  Concept  
 
VTOL UAVs are aimed for combining the advantages of 
unmanned helicopter and conventional UAVs. They can 
have the capability of vertical take -off and landing such as 
unmanned helicopters, and high cruise speed such as 
conventional UAVs.  Thus, VTOL UAVs can carry out take-
off a nd landing operations even at hazardous environments 
not suitable for take -off and landing, and at the same time 
can reach target operation point in a short time frame. Also, 
a VTOL UAV in a cruise flight mode can change its mode to 
hover mode. This proper ty allows it to realize several 
missions with higher performance than unmanned 
helicopters and conventional UAVs [8, 10].  
Helicopters hold the upper hand at the operations  that 
requires several flight modes such as switching to hover 
mode from high speed c ruise mode.  VTOL UAVs can 
realize this operations like a helicopter. While helicopters 
have advantages over both VTOL and conventional aircrafts 
at vertical flight, because of pitch up at rotor pals curling 
backwards, they have performance restrictions  at lateral 
flight. VTOL UAVs do not have these performance 
restrictions of helicopters in horizontal flight. Moreover, as 
long as big rotor systems are not used, their mechanical 
design are simpler [8, 10].  
Hovering and flying at low altitudes like helicopters are 
the main advantages of VTOL UAVs. Efficiency of VTOL 
air vehicles at hovering is lower than helicopters due to 
smaller effective rotor area. However, if hovering time is 
similar to cruise flight tim e, than VTOL aircrafts have 
higher composite efficiency due to their better cruise flight 
performance  [8, 10].  
Conventional UAVs necessitates a runway, cannot take -
off from and land to everywhere. However, their lateral 
flight performance are higher than h elicopter systems. While 
VTOL aircrafts can fly at speeds as higher as conventional 
UAVs, additional weight due to vertical take -off/landing 
systems lowers their payload capacity with respect to 
conventional system. Nonetheless, high thrust / weight ratio 
215  
of VTOL UAVs enable better manoeuvring  ability than 
conventional UAVs, but this brings additional control 
difficulties. Control problems can be overcome by autopilot 
systems [8, 10].  
 VTOL UAVs combine the advantages of helicopters and 
fixed -wing aircraft such as  their vertical take -off and landing 
capacity, better manoeuvring ability, high cruise speed and 
omnidirectional controllability. While VTOL UAV can fly 
at similar speed with fixed -wing aircraft, they can also hover 
like a helicopter. While their ef ficiency is lower than the 
vehicles that are designed for only hover flight regime or 
horizontal flight regime, their composite efficiency is higher 
because of possessing these two flight regimes [8, 10].  
Evolution history of VTOL systems [10], developed 
VTOL UAV Design Technology [8], existing criterions [10], 
comparison with conventional and helicopter systems [8, 
10], and future prediction [8] can be reached by the given 
sources.  
 
II. THE CONCEPT OF THE TURAC  TILT ROTOR UAV  
Following properties are taken int o account for the UAV 
that will be designed and manufactured inside the project 
scope.  
 Lower cost than military UAV.  
 Vertical take -off and landing capability (for all 
types of terrain).  
 Hovering  
 Ease of portability and packaging  
 Ability to work with differ ent kinds of payloads  
 Mobile ground station  
In addition to these, minimum target performance 
criterions for VTOL UAV are given as follows:  
 1 hour cruise + 15 minutes  hovering + 15 
minutes take -off and landing  
 35 km operation radius (70 km range)  
 5 kg payload (hyper spectral imager, or 
potentially additional devices such as RGB 
Camera, Thermal Camera, Emission  
Measurement Device)  
 20 m/s cruise speed  
 Automatic take -off – landing – flight  
A. First Configuration  
Aircraft geometry and configuration in Fig. 2 is conceived 
taking the requirements into consideration.  
 
  
Fig.: 2 TURAC  Concept  Design  
Portability is at the forefront at TURAC  concept. In the 
design process, a concept that allows folding aircraft wings, 
wings with varying dimensions and replaceable body options 
is used as a base.  TURAC  system, which consists of 3 parts, 
namely main body and edge wings, can be mounted easily 
and it can be fitted in a considerably small volume with 
respect to its size. This way, it can be easily transported with 
vehicles such as SUV and truck.  
Also, structure , which is formed by integrating the wings 
and the body , is more rigid than other conventional systems 
and allows vehicle to respond sharp manoeu vre needs. 
TURAC  can start mission from over another aircraft or 
helicopter. As a propulsion system, a stationary engine at the 
back and two tilt motors at the front is planned.  
TURAC  VTOL UAV, which can adapt to different 
mission conditions with its prope rties given above, can take -
off from and land to partly  flattened  dirt runways , or using a 
catapult system, can start its mission by launching from 
ships or land vehicles if desired.   
 
III. INITIAL SIZING  
A.  Weight Estimations  
As the thrust produced by all of the motors is used to 
counter the weight of the aircraft, T/W ratio is chosen as 1.3.  
A trade -off study is carried out to determine correlation 
between total endurance time and payload capacity of the 
aircraft ( Fig. 3). 
 
Fig. 3: Payload –Endurance time  comparison  
0510152025
0 50 100 150 200Useful Pyaload  (kg)  
Total endurance (min.)  Hybrid System MTOW 46  
Total Endurance - Useful payload  216  
Most of the power consumption of VTOL systems is 
occurred at vertical take -off & landing and hover stages. 
Moreover, increasing the flight time is another parameter 
which  raise s the power needs. For these reasons, consumed 
power approach is use d to calculate take -off weight and 
sizing  of TURAC .  
TURAC  system has two flight condition; cruise flight and 
vertical flight.  
Total power consumption of the system is calculated 
according to the mission profile and maximum take -off 
weight of the TURAC  is determined with iterative 
calculations.   
 
B.  Wing Geometry  
Aerodynamic efficiency of TURAC  VTOL UAV  reached 
its peak with “blended wing” design ( Fig. 2). With this 
design, usable interior space is much bigger than 
conventional systems, and this allow s user to mount different 
payloads with greatly varying sizes. As the aircraft acquires 
lifting force from the whole structure, it can carry higher 
number of payloads than similar sized aircrafts.  
TURAC  is a blended wing design and l ift is generated 
from both fuselage and attachable wing s. There is no tail 
structure to balance moment over the airfoil. For this reason, 
reflex airfoils are used on aircraft to balance moments which 
is occurred from generating lift. Differ ent custom designs of 
reflex airfoils are used on TURAC  to enhance lift capacity 
while holding the drag at acceptable level.  
 
Fig. 4: Figure A: cruise mode, F igure B : hover and vertical 
flight mode  
 
Wing shaped f uselage and attachable wings  are designed 
with swept wing for making TURAC  more stable. In 
addition, winglets are used to make aircraft aerodynamically 
more efficient. Also winglets are used as control surfaces for 
controlling yaw manoeuvres.  
Wing sizing process is done after estimating maximum 
take-off weight. The primary point  while making wing sizing 
calculations  is stall speed because TURAC  makes vertical 
take-off/landing and cruise flight. Aircraft  needs to slow 
down until  tilted propeller and main lift fan working effectively for vertical flight. At this point, stall speed is 
determined and sizing calculations are done.       
B. Propulsion System  
 
A main lift fan used to lift most of the aircraft weight and 
2 tilted motor s are used mainly for cruise flight . For this 
reason main lift fan power consumption is the most 
important issue to optimize hover endurance. TURAC  
system uses ducted fan system with coaxial rotors which 
enhance  systems aerodynamic performance as  shown in Fig. 
5. Performance calculations are based on momentum theory 
and flight tunnel tests with single prop eller, ducted propeller 
and ducted coaxial propellers. [ 24]  
 
 
Fig. 5: Main Lift Fan Diameter – Trust Comparison   
 
Coaxial fan system is selected with two electric  motor and 
speed controllers. Torque differentiation method is used for 
yaw manoeuvres  while hovering and making vertical flight. 
Electric driven system allows TURAC  to make precision 
controlled flights in complex areas.  
 
As the Variant A fully us es battery, the Variant B uses 
fuel cells by taking into consideration its energy efficiency, 
being environmentally friendly. The fuel cells are also 
considered as constructional components of the TURAC.  
 
Inner allocation properties of TURAC  VTOL UAV B 
variant is given at Fig. 6. Main transportation fan  is close to 
the middle of the vehicle. Front e lectric motors directed 
upwards during VTOL phase stabilizes vehicle during hover 
and are used at cruise flight.   
 
Battery system near main duct can be removed f rom the 
aircraft completely, thus vehicle can be prepared quickly for 
mission. Lithium Polymer battery system, which has the 
most energy density and which can be found in the market, 
is chosen as battery system. Fuel tanks made from Kevlar 
and near to cent re of gravity allow  varying fuel quantities for 
0204060
0 0,2 0,4 0,6 0,8 1 1,2Thrust (kg)  
Propeller Diameter (m)  Main Lift Fan Diameter -Thrust  Comparision  
P=7kW FM=0,7  
Single Propeller (kg) Ducted Single Fan (kg)
Ducted Coax Fan (kg)217  
different mission conditions, and this provides a flexible 
structure to the vehicle.  
 
 
 Fig. 6: TURAC  preliminary design  layout properties  
 
System, which is modified for main carrier, consists of 
one main  engine, high efficiency special design fan and duct, 
and thrust orientation system ( Fig. 7). For increasing 
movement capability of the vehicle at windy and narrow 
areas, two thrust orientation ( thrust vector system ) systems  
below the main fan are mounted.  This system, aside from 
providing convenience for stabilizing the aircraft, creates a 
flat surface by completely closing at cruise flight and 
decreases drag force due to the integration of main fan to the 
body.  
 
 
 
Fig. 7: TURAC  front design , main engine placement details  
 
Single ducted fan system with single rotor makes vertical 
flight unstable. For this reason, supporting systems are 
needed and elect ric motor -propeller systems, which  could be  
controlled more precisely than internal combustio n engines, 
are designed with tilt mechanism. Small amount of weight is 
lifted with tilted electric  motor -propeller system  to enhance 
vertical flight stability.  
  
Fig. 8: TURAC  preliminary design   
 
Results are summarized at Table 1. System can provide 
different flight times to user according to size of payload.  
 
TABLE I.  TURAC  PRELIMINARY DESIGN RESULTS  
TURAC  Preliminary design Overall Information  
Name  TURAC  VTOL UAV  
Type  (conceptual ) Blended Wing UAV  
Type  
 (depending on energy 
consumption ) Fuel/Electric Hybrid 
System   
(main carrier with fuel , 
stabilizers with electric ) 
Wing  Span  4,2 m 
Length  1,82 m 
MTOW  46 kg  
Nom. Payload  8 kg 
Speed  (Cruise ) 24 m/s  
Max. Operational  Altitude  4000 m  
Endurance   
(with 10 kg payload ) 95 min 
Endurance   
(with 5 kg payload ) 135 min 
Hover Flight Duration  10 min 
Take -off/Landing  Type  VTOL / Conventional  
Logistics  SUV or truck  
 
 
IV. COMPARISON  OF TURAC  WITH OTHER UAV S  
European Unmanned Association categorizes unmanned 
air vehicles at 5 different main categories:  
 Close  range  (Range less than 25 km ) 
 Short  range  (Range between 25 -100 km ) 
 Middle  range  (Range between 100 -200 km ) 
218  
 Long  range  (Range between 200 -500 km ) 
 Endurance ( Operation range more than 500 km or 
can stay at air more than 20 hours ) 
 
Vertical Take -off – Landing unmanned air vehicles can be 
found at the first three categories.  
When compared to other VTOL UAVs, TURAC  becomes a 
high speed mini UAV system platform  at high ranking  with 
its high portability (Table 2), and payload capacity . As it is 
upgradable in terms of design, it is a basic product which 
can have higher endurance with additional fuel tanks and 
battery. Productivity is an important parameter for UAV’s 
which is directly connected with  endurance and payload 
capacity  [24] .These properties  can be seen at Fig. 9-11. In 
addition, it carries basic technology demonstration properties 
for its bigger and smaller variants.  
 
TABLE II.  COMPARISON OF VTOL  UAV  SYSTEMS  
 
World  Mini 
UAV  IAI Panther  IAI Mini Panther  Organic Air 
Vehicle 1  Organic Air 
Vehicle 2  TURAC  A 
Variant 
Preliminary  
Design  
Take -off 
Weight (k g) 65 12,0 10,00  35,00  46,00  
Payload  (kg) 8 2 0,5 3,5 8 
WP/W MTOW  0,123  0,16 0,05 0,1 0,173  
Endurance 
time (h) 6,00 2,00 0,25 0,42 1,50 
Range  (km)  60 - 10 20 70 
Maximum 
Altitude  (m) 3000  - 2400,00  2000  4000  
Average 
Speed  (km/h)  130 65,00  - 8000 72 
Wing Span  
(m) 2-8 1.5 - - 3 
Productivity  
(kg*h)  48 4 0,125  1,47 12  
 
Fig. 9 : Take –off Weight and Useful Payload Comparison 
of World Mini UAVs   
 
 
Fig. 10 : Range and Endurance Comparison  of World Mini 
UAVs   
 
 
 
Fig. 11 : Average Velocity Comparison of World Mini 
UAVs   
65 
12,00  10,00  35,00  46,00  
8 2 0,5 3,5 8 Take off Weight (kg) Useful Payload (kg)
0,0020,0040,0060,0080,00
6,00  2,00  0,25  0,42  1,50  60 
20 
1 2 70 
Endurance (h)  Range (km)
050100150
IAI Panther IAI Mini
PantherOrganic Air
Vehicle 2TURAC
Preliminary
Design
Average Velocity (km/h)219  
As seen in Figs. 8 -9, in comparison with Organic Air 
Vehicles, TURAC  UAV has substantially more range and 
payload carrying capacity as a result of being much bigger. 
Moreover TURAC  carries the same payload with less 
MTOW in comparison with IAI Panther which is one of the 
best examples in the market.  
 
V. CONCLUSION  
In this study, a Commercial VTOL UAV Vehicles are 
designed to produce and test the TURAC  UAV having 
following features: Vertical take -off and landing, and 
hovering like helicopter, High cruise speed and fixed -wing, 
multi-functional and designed for civil p urpose . Several 
trade -off studies are performed to for initial sizing. After 
some more optimization studies, the geometry will be fixed. 
Afterwards, the design will be produced and tested to 
validate determined performance criteria.  
 
REFERENCES  
 
[1]  Sarris, Z ., Survey of UAV Applications in Civil Markets, Technical 
University of Crete, June 2001.  
[2]  Zongjian, L.,  UAV  for Mapping – Low Altituede Photorammetric 
Survey, The International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote 
Sensing and Spatial Information Scienc es. Vol. XXXVII. Part B1, 
Beijing, 2008  
[3] Dhaliwal, S.S,  Control of an Unconventional Double -Ducted Fan 
VTOL UAV  For Obstructed Environments Using the MARC System, 
MSc. Thesis., University of Calgary, August, 2009  
[4]  Watts, A.C. and others,  Small Unmanned Aircraft Systems for Low 
– Altitude Aerial Surveys, Journal of Wildlife Management 74(7): 
1614 -1619, 2010  
[5] Foy, B. W.,  Hover Controls for a Unique Small -Scale Thrust 
Reversing UAV, MSc. Thesis, University  of Colorado, 2005  
[6] Quick, D.,   Israe l Aerospace Industries unveils tilt -rotor Panther UAV 
platform, AERO GIZMO, October, 2010  
[7] Puri, .A, Survey of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) for Traffic 
Surveillance, University of South Florida, 2005  
[8]  Ahn, O., Kim, J.M., and Lim, C.H.,  Smart UAV Research P rogram 
Status Update: Achievement of  Tilt -Rotor Technology Development 
and Vision Ahead, ICAS 2010, 27th International Congress of the 
Aeronautical Sciences, 2010.  
[9]  Michael, E.H.,   U.S.Geological Survey Unmanned Aircraft Systems 
Project Office, National U nmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Project 
Office, USA  
[10] Smith, K.R. and Belina, F.W., Small V/STOL Aircraft Analysis, 
Vol. 1, NASA Report CR -2425, 1974  
[11] Ozlem A., Mehmet S. K., ve Ozan T. , 2004, Tilt Duct Vertical 
Takeoff and Landing Uninhabited Aerial Vehicle C oncept Design 
Study , Journal of Aircraft, 41 (2), pp.215 -223. 
[12] Aksugur Mirac; Inalhan Gokhan,  2010, Design Methodology of a 
Hybrid Propulsion Driven Electric Powered Miniature Tailsitter 
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle , Journal of Intelligent & Robotic Systems, 
57 (1-4), pp.  505-529. [13]   Okan,A.,  Flight Mechanics Analysis and Control of a Tilt Duct 
UAV, Middle East Technical Univ., Aero. Eng. Dept., M.S. Thesis, 
December 2000.  
[14]  Armutcuoglu,  O.,  The Conceptual Design of a Tilt -Duct UAV, 
Middle East Technical Univ., Aero. Eng. Dept., M.S. Thesis, 
December 2000.  
[15] Resonon Pika II Imaging  Spectrometer ,   HYPERLINK 
"http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=RedirectURL&_method
=externObjLink& _locator=url&_issn=17505836&_origin=article&_z
one=art_page&_plusSign=%2B&_targetURL=http%253A%252F%25
2Fwww.resonon.com%252Fpika.html" \t "externObjLink" 
www.resonon.com/pika.html ,2013.  
[16] Charlie J. K. , Kevin S. R., Rick L. L., Steven C. J., and John L. C., 
Monitoring effects of a controlled subsurface carbon dioxide release 
on vegetation using a hyperspectral imager, International Journal of 
Greenhouse Gas Control, Volume 3, Issue 5, September 2009, pp. 
626-632. 
[17] Mitchell, J. J., Glenn, N. F., Anderson, M. O.,  Hruska,  R. C., Halford, 
A., Baun, C., and  Nydegger, N. Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) 
Hyperspectral Remote Sensing for Dryland Vegetation Monitoring , 
2012.  
[18] Jay, S., Lawrence, R., Repasky, K., & Keith, C. , Invasive Species 
Mapping Using Low Cost Hyperspectr al Imagery, ASPRS 2009 . 
[19] Nansen, C., Sidumo, A. J., & Capareda, S. , Variogram analysis of 
hyperspectral data to characterize the impact of biotic and abiotic 
stress of maize plants and to estimate biofuel potential.  Applied 
spectroscopy,  64(6), 627 -636, 201 0. 
[20] Tindall, J. A.,  Deconvolution of Plant Type (s) for Homeland Security 
Enforcement Using Remote Sensing on a UAV Collection Platform. 
Geological Survey Denver Co ., 2006.  
[21] Salem, F ., and Menas K., Hyperspectral image analysis for oil spill 
mitigati on, Asian Conference on Remote Sensing, vol. 5, p. 9. 2001.  
[22] Darvishsefat, A. A., Tobias W. K., and Klaus I. I., Application of 
hyperspectral data for forest stand mapping.  Symposium on 
Geospatial Theory, Processing and Applications, Ottawa. 2002.  
[23] Tuominen, J. , "Detection of environmental change using hyperspectral 
remote sensing at Olkiluoto repository site.", 2011 . 
[24] Johnson, Wayne (2010). NDARC - NASA Design and Analysis of 
Rotorcraft Theoritical Basis and Architechture , NASA Ames Research 
Center, American Helicopter Society Aeromechanics Specialists’ 
Conference, San Francisco,CA, Ocak 2010.  
[25] Timoty Edward lee, Lee, T.A., Design and Performance of a Ducted 
Coaxial Rotor in Hover and Forward Flght, University of Maryland, 
Aero. Eng. Dept., M.S. Thesis, 2010  
[26] Pereira, J.L., Hover and Wind Tunnel Testing of Shrouded Rotors for 
Improved Micro Air Vehicle Design, University of Maryland, PhD  
Thesis, 2008  
 
 
 
 
 220